# Rolly-Polly
#### A tool that uses data and geolocation to give users information about voter turnout, voter registration, and state-by-state policies for frequently underrepresented groups.
## Introduction
##### This is a project that was created as a Term Project for the class 1.00 (Engineering Computation and Data Science) at MIT. The project assignment was to use machine learning and/or data science to create a project that stimulated the interests of the creators. This project was created as a joint effort between three undergraduate students who were passionate about ending voter disenfranchisement in marginalized groups. 
## Technologies
##### This project was created using:
* Bootstrap 3 or 4
* Python 3.8 or 3.9
* HTML5
* ECMAScript 2018
* CSS 4
* GeoIP
* ArcGIS
## Launch
##### To use the website, visit https://rolly-polly-mit.github.io/Rolly-Polly/.
##### To run the program, simply download the repository onto your device. Open "index.html" to direct yourself to the home page. If you would like GeoIP to find your location, make sure you are not using a VPN. From here, navigate around the resources and pages using the website. If you would like to run the voter turnout prediction program, you will need to have Python installed on your device, and ensure that you have the training CSV downloaded. All of the files necessary for this can be found in the "Predictions" folder of the repository. The data presented on the site is from a static CSV file that was generated by this program. 
## Interface layout
##### The index.html will bring you to the main page of the site. From here, you will see links to the other sites in the upper right hand corner. The "map" link will show you a color coded map of the United States, by state. Each state was colored according to its voting laws. Specifically, states that appear more red have stricter laws and more disenfranchisement, while states that are more green have fewer instances of voter suppression. The "states" tab will give you a data breakdown of some key information by state, and display predicted voter turnout for 2024, as a percentage of total voter registration. The "Resources" tab will display an alert that asks if the GeoIP found your state correctly. If so, your state's voter registration link should appear automatically. If not, you can use the dropdown to your left to direct yourself to your state of interest. Finally, the "Sources" tab contains links to the sources used for the project and general voter information links.
